What is AI?
  john mccarthy: every aspect of learning or any other feature of intelligence can in principle be so precisely described that a machine can be made to simulate it. 
  An attempt will be made to find how to make machines use language form abstractions and concepts, solve kinds of problems now reserved for humans, and imporove themselves.
  AI is the use of machines to solve problems that are usually done by us humans.
  it is a machine or computer program that learns how to do tasks that requires a form of intelligence and that are usually done by human. Intelligence comes in many forms and 
  has many differenct aspects.
  
  The Science of making machines think like people.
    if machines think like people they will also do bad things, because our human brain is not perfect.
    goal is to think / act rationally.
  
  Rational defined in computer science: 
    - Maximally achieving pre-defined goals 
    - Rationality only concerns what decisions are made (not the thought process behind them)
    - goals are expressed in terms of the utility of outcomes (utitlity is the income earned on stock market)
    - being rational means maximizing your expected utility. (expected means average), 
    
    better name for course is computational rationality
      - goal is to design a rational agent to maximize the expected utility. 
      
 almost impossible to create AI that simulates a brain because of the modules that make up a brain
 
 lessons learned from the brain memorization and simultation are key to decision making - must provide when build AI
 
  
  
  Original 7 Aspects of A.I. (1955)
    1. Simulting higher functions of the human brain
    2. Programmin a computer to use general language.
    3. Arranging hypothetical neurons n a manner so that they can form conecpts.
    4. A way to determine and measure problem complexity
    5. Self-improvement
    6. Abstractions: Defined as the quality of dealing with ideas rather than events.
    7. Randomness and creativity
    
 Important factors of AI:
  generalization learning   
  reasoning
  problem solving
  perception
  language understanding
  
Most AI Alogrthms are expert systems:
  a system that employs knowledge that ordinarly require human expertise.
  D. mines alphago is not expert system which means its algorithms can be used and applied to other things.
   
What Can AI Do?
AI Applications
  machine learning
  robotics
  knowledge management
  ibm chess 
  ibm watson
  google deep learning 
  speech to text, image recognition, translation
What is this course about?


Designing rational Agents:
  - an agent is an entity that precieves and acts
    - does not have to be a robot
  - a computer can be an agent
  - a computer equiped with AI algorthms is the agents, its an entity and perceives information from stock market and the action is the trade (sale or buy)
  - characteristics of the percepts, environment, and action space dictate techniques for selection rational actions.
  
  Pac-Man as an Agent
  
  AI is the make machine think and act rationally. rational = maximizes through utility.
  AI is make machines think and act so that the expected utility is maximized.
  
  AI includes: 
    - Machine Learning
        - Deep Learning
   - Human-AI Interaction
   - Robots (physically embodied)
   - computer vision
   - NLP - neutral language processing
      
 History of AI:
 - first coined in 1956, by john mcarthy, called together scientists to see if a machine could learn like a child does using trial and error to develop formal reasoning.
 - 1940 - 1950 Early Days:  - just Theory at this point
- 2000 explosion in AI especially in neural networks
    
    
re-inforcement learning:
- give reward to agent, so it learns what is good and not
           
           
           
Extra Documentation:
http://web.pdx.edu/~arhodes/ai5.pdf
http://www.cs.csi.cuny.edu/~imberman/ai/Uninformed%20Search%20chap3.pdf
http://courses.csail.mit.edu/6.882/PS1solutions.pdf
            
  
  
